The first function you looked at is identify,
determining and documenting your key business assets.
If you don't know what you have, how can you protect it?
This category helps you figure out what technology, data,
and other resources your company has that's valuable to you and others.
Some examples of this category include;
identifying physical and software assets,
understanding your business environment,
the policies you've established as part of your governance program,
how do you manage your risk management strategy?
Supply chain risks. In other words,
what are entry points and exit points for information and data in your organization?
The idea here is to identify computers that have access to,
for example, our banks money and people's bank accounts.
Now that you've identified your organization's key assets,
we can move to step 2 of the NIST CSF, protect.
These are ways you can secure the items you identified in step 1.
Ways to establish valid protection come in many forms,
including non-technical human components such as security awareness.
Other examples are technical products and services,
acquiring some level of expertise such as firewalls on network security or web filters,
malware and virus protection,
patching and updating or encrypting the data so it's scrambled,
whether it's in transit across the Internet,
or at rest within a database or a file share.
Some examples of this include,
protecting using identity management and access control,
teaching your employees through awareness and training,
establishing some data security protection.
In other words within the bank,
not allowing everybody into the banks databases that may
contain the sensitive information about people's accounts whether they have money,
and managing protective technology to ensure security resilience of computer systems.
With these defenses in place,
you don't have to rely as much on the further functions within the nest framework,
but they all tie together.
In the first two steps of the nest cyber security framework,
we identified critical assets and established controls to protect those assets.
The third step, is to detect a real or potential incident as quickly as possible.
This allows you to quickly and easily respond and recover.
The detect function is defined as the development and implementation of
some type of an activity to identify the occurrence of a cyber security event,
which could be something that causes damage or
just is something you notice, like for example,
a phishing attack against your organization,
we see those all the time,
that can be an event, but if no one clicks on it or doesn't do any damage,
it's not considered an incident.
Detects function also has the focus on assisting the appropriate finding of
such events and you need to determine what events to look for and identify them quickly.
Some examples within the detect function,
including ensuring these events and anomalies are detected,
knowing if there's any thresholds that are exceeded.
Like you normally expect,
say 500 people to hit your website daily and now you're seeing 50,000,
that should be an anomaly and you should understand why that is occurring.
You should also implement continuous monitoring,
so this way you are always knowing what's happening on your systems,
even in the middle of the night.
Then maintaining your detection processes,
this allow you to have an alarming place,
like someone getting into the bank who shouldn't,
whether it's physically, or virtually meaning logically, through network sensors.
Once you detect a problem,
whether it's a security breach,
network outage, or system misconfiguration,
you need to respond.
This is your plan for handling incidents to ensure that their impact is minimal.
Examples include; writing your incident response plan and
process and distributing it to your employees who will need to implement it.
Should there be some type of a disaster like a weather event,
or an attack against your infrastructure that takes it down.
For example, a denial of service attack will stop your website from working.
You want to be able to respond to it and get back to work as quickly as possible.
Response also includes managing who communicates and an analysis of the event,
and then mitigation activities that are performed afterward
to prevent the expansion of the event and to resolve the incident.
By using the NIST CSF functions and categories,
organizations experience fewer breaches and security compliance issues.
After responding to an incident,
you may need to recover all or portions of your business.
Step 5 of the nist cyber security framework is recovery.
Getting your operations quickly back to normal,
can lessen the financial and human costs of a cyber-security incident.
The more resilient you are,
the less your organization is impacted by the disruption.
Examples include; ensuring the organization implements
the recovery planning according to the document that should be written,
tested, and you should have employees trained on your disaster recovery plans.
Also means implementing improvement based on the lessons you
learned through your tests or real-world incidents.
Then like the response,
you need to have appropriate internal and external communications,
both internally and externally to the organization.
For example with the bank,
if you have a bank robber who broke the window trying to get in,
you would need to install a new window and maybe some bars.
Within our computers, we may be looking to install new defenses,
or maybe re-installing systems.
The NIST CSF functions,
categories and subcategories help us implement
security through all of the different areas of a cyber security program.